docs/08_FAQ.md, before:

# Frequently Asked Questions
TODO: see if there is a way to make this page come after 3.5.9

${toc}

# Google Compute Engine (GCE)

## How do I backup my VM or share my VM with someone else?
Create a [snapshot](https://cloud.google.com/compute/docs/disks/persistent-disks#snapshots) of your persistent disks.
_Note: if the planemo image has been updated snapshots of an old VM cannot be used to load your data to a new VM using the update planemo image._
_See below for instructions on how to transfer your data from an old VM to a new VM._

## How do I make the most of my credits?
[Stop](https://cloud.google.com/compute/docs/instances/#stopping_an_instance) your virtual machine instances when not in use and [restart](https://cloud.google.com/compute/docs/instances/#restarting_a_stopped_instance) them when you are ready to work again.

## How do I check how many credits I have spent?
View your [cost and payment history](https://support.google.com/cloudbilling/answer/3540823?hl=en&ref_topic=2991962).

## How do I get support for Google Compute Engine?
For any questions about Google Compute Engine, please post to the forum on [Stack Overflow](http://stackoverflow.com/questions/tagged/google-compute-engine)

For assistance from a Google Support Engineer, please see https://cloud.google.com/support/.

## How do I access my VM from the command line of my local machine (gcloud)?

Google provides a tool for doing this called gcloud. Gcloud lets you run your VM from your local machine and also allows you to transfer data between your VM and your local machine.
In order to install and setup gcloud on both your local machine and on your VM follow the instructions below:
#### Setup gcloud on your local machine
1. Find your Challenge project ID
Go to your [Google Developers Console](https://console.developers.google.com/project) to view your projects, and find your project ID under the 'Home' section. If you do not already have a project use the 'Create Project' button.

2. Install Google Cloud SDK on you local machine
Follow the instructions [here](https://developers.google.com/cloud/sdk/) to install the Google Cloud SDK on your local machine.
Note: all command line inputs need to be run on your local machine __not__ you VM instance.

#### Setup gcloud on your VM instances
3. SSH into the VM instance that you want to use gcloud on.

To do this find your VM instance on the Google Developer Console under Compute -> Compute Engine -> VM instances  at the bottom of the page. Once you have found your VM instance ensure that it is started (if it is not select the instance and click the 'Start' button at the top of the page). Finally click the 'SSH' button under the 'Connect' header at the bottom of the page.

4. Authenticate to gcloud.

Run the following command in your VM terminal:
```
gcloud auth login
```
and follow the on-screen instructions.

5. Configure the default project ID (if you did not do so in Step 4)

If you were not asked for your project ID in Step 4 then run the following command in you VM terminal to set your project ID.
```
gcloud config set project YOUR-PROJECT-ID
```
Recall that you can find your project ID in your [Google Developers Console](https://console.developers.google.com/project) under the 'Home' section.

> If you receive the following error during any of the later steps:
>  ######!ERROR: (gcloud.compute.instances.create) The required property [project] is not currently set.
>  ######!You may set it for your current workspace by running:
>
>  ######!$ gcloud config set project VALUE
>
>  ######!or it can be set temporarily by the environment variable [CLOUDSDK_CORE_PROJECT]
> your current project has not been set so you should execute the above command.

6. Configure the default zone

To avoid needing to select a time zone any time you run a gcloud command run the following command in your VM instance, replacing 'us-central1-f' with your desired time zone.
```
gcloud config set compute/zone us-central1-f
```
A list of time zones that are compatible with gcloud can be found [here](https://cloud.google.com/compute/docs/zones)

7. Enable the Compute Engine API

If you've never used GCE before, you may need to enable the Compute Engine API.  Click [here](https://console.developers.google.com/start/api?id=compute_component) to enable the API.

You can also enable the Compute Engine API manually by following these steps:
    1. go to your [Google Developers Console](https://console.developers.google.com/project)
    2. choose the project you are using for the Challenge
    3. Under 'APIs & auth' -> APIs, select 'Compute Engine API' and click the 'Enable' button at the top of the page

> If you receive the following error:
> ######!NAME PROJECT ALIAS DEPRECATED STATUS
> ######!ERROR: (gcloud.compute.images.create) Some requests did not succeed:
>
> ######!Access Not Configured. The API (Compute Engine API) is not enabled for your project.
> ######!Please use the Google Developers Console to update your configuration.
> You have not enabled the Compute Engine API

## How do I update the Planemo Image?
If there is a need to update the SDK image, usually because bug fixes or new features, you will need to create an new image and a new VM instance based on that image.

To create the new image and VM instance follow the same instructions you used to create your original image and VM instance (above or in [3.5.0 Quick Start](https://www.synapse.org/#!Synapse:syn2786217/wiki/266669). All the instructions are the same except you will need to choose a new name for your image, your disk and your instance (for example 'planemo-v2' instead of 'planemo').

When updating your image, you may want to get delete the older version to save space. There is no need to keep an image if there is an instance running based on that image, since the instance does not depend on the image once it has been created. If you delete the image before setting up your new image you can also use the same name for the new image and the old image.

Deleting the image isn't required if you are willing to pay for the extra storage space, and can manage the names of multiple images.

Once you have created your new VM instance you can then transfer all the data from your old instance to your new instance, by following the instructions below, so you do not lose any of your work.

After you have successfully transfered your data from your old VM instance to your new VM instance you can delete your old VM instance if you want, to save space.

>Make sure you transfer all the data from your old VM instance to either your local machine or your new VM instance before deleting your old VM instance or else you will lose all your work.

Alternatively, if you do not want to delete your old VM instance, you can stop it (but not delete it) by running the following command from your local machine:
```
gcloud compute instances stop planemo
```
You can also stop your instance manually by following these steps:
    1. go to your [Google Developers Console](https://console.developers.google.com/project)
    2. find your old VM under Compute -> Compute Engine -> VM instances at the bottom of the page
    3. select your old VM and click the 'Stop' button at the top of the page

##How do I delete my old image?

> Deleting an image is different then deleting an instance. The image is simply the start source, and once an instance as been started it is no longer dependent on the image. You work is stored in the instance. Do not delete that until you've copied it somewhere else.

To delete the old image run the following command from your local machine:
```
gcloud compute images delete OLD_IMAGE_NAME
```

If you do not have gcloud installed or prefer not to use the command line you can delete your old image manually by following these steps:
    1. go to your [Google Developers Console](https://console.developers.google.com/project)
    2. find your old image under Compute -> Compute Engine -> Images
    3. select your old image and click the 'Delete' button at the top of the page

##How do I transfer data between VM instances?
The easiest way to move data between two VMs is to use your personal machine as a transfer point. We will be transferring data from your old VM to your local machine and then from your local machine to your new VM.

_Note: For all instructions below replace `planemo` and `planemo-v2` with the names of your old and new VM instances respectively._
_Note: Before you start, ensure that you have set up gcloud on your local machine and both your VM's (old and new)._

* Start by running both instances at the same time. You can check if both instances are running and using gcloud by executing following the command on your local machine:
```
gcloud compute instances list
```
This should return the following list:
```
NAME       ZONE          MACHINE_TYPE  INTERNAL_IP   EXTERNAL_IP     STATUS
planemo-v2 us-central1-f n1-standard-2 10.240.229.40 162.222.179.9   RUNNING
planemo    us-central1-f n1-standard-2 10.240.49.28  130.211.131.162 RUNNING
```

* Next copy the files from the original machine to your local machine by executing the following command on your local machine:
```
gcloud compute copy-files ubuntu@planemo:/opt/galaxy/tools ./
```

> If you receive the following error:
>
> ######!ERROR: (gcloud.compute.copy-files) Could not SSH to the instance.
>
> when you are trying to copy your files then check to make sure that your VM instance has HTTPS and HTTP connections enabled. This information can be found in your Google Compute Engine by going to Compute -> Compute Engine -> VM instances, clicking on you VM instance and looking under Firewall (both boxes should be checked). If these boxes are not checked click 'Edit' at the top of the page to change them.

* Finally copy the files from your local machine to the new VM by executing the following command on you local machine:
```
gcloud compute copy-files tools ubuntu@planemo-v2:/opt/galaxy/
```

# Galaxy

## What should I do if my tool isn't loading properly in Galaxy?
First try restarting both Docker and Galaxy, in case the changes haven't been recognized by one of these services, using the commands:
```
$ sudo service docekr restart
$ restart_galaxy
```
in your VM instance.

If you are still having issues check that your XML file is formatted properly using the `planemo lint my_tool_xml.xml` command and then restart Docker and Galaxy again.

# Docker
## Do I need to create my own Dockerfile?
No, if you find a Dockerfile that works for you on the [Docker Registry](https://hub.docker.com/) then feel free to use that one instead. In fact if you use a Dockerfile straight from the Docker Registry then you don't even need to donwload it to your VM, you just need to reference it in your XML file.

## The Dockerfiles I found on the Docker website include 'CMD' lines to run some software function, should mine?
No, that is what Galaxy is for. Your Dockerfile should only be used to setup the environment for your tool to run in, all of the commands should be found in your tool's XML file.

Commit message:

Changing the formatting and naming, moving the Google credits page to a more appropriate place

docs/08_FAQ.md, after:

# Frequently Asked Questions
TODO: see if there is a way to make this page come after 3.5.9

${toc}

# Google Compute Engine (GCE)

## How do I backup my VM or share my VM with someone else?
Create a [snapshot](https://cloud.google.com/compute/docs/disks/persistent-disks#snapshots) of your persistent disks.
_Note: if the planemo image has been updated snapshots of an old VM cannot be used to load your data to a new VM using the update planemo image._
_See below for instructions on how to transfer your data from an old VM to a new VM._

## How do I make the most of my credits?
[Stop](https://cloud.google.com/compute/docs/instances/#stopping_an_instance) your virtual machine instances when not in use and [restart](https://cloud.google.com/compute/docs/instances/#restarting_a_stopped_instance) them when you are ready to work again.

## How do I check how many credits I have spent?
View your [cost and payment history](https://support.google.com/cloudbilling/answer/3540823?hl=en&ref_topic=2991962).

## How do I get support for Google Compute Engine?
For any questions about Google Compute Engine, please post to the forum on [Stack Overflow](http://stackoverflow.com/questions/tagged/google-compute-engine)

For assistance from a Google Support Engineer, please see https://cloud.google.com/support/.

## How do I access my VM from the command line of my local machine (gcloud)?

Google provides a tool for doing this called gcloud. Gcloud lets you run your VM from your local machine and also allows you to transfer data between your VM and your local machine.
In order to install and setup gcloud on both your local machine and on your VM follow the instructions below:
#### Setup gcloud on your local machine
1. Find your Challenge project ID
Go to your [Google Developers Console](https://console.developers.google.com/project) to view your projects, and find your project ID under the 'Home' section. If you do not already have a project use the 'Create Project' button.

2. Install Google Cloud SDK on you local machine
Follow the instructions [here](https://developers.google.com/cloud/sdk/) to install the Google Cloud SDK on your local machine.
Note: all command line inputs need to be run on your local machine __not__ you VM instance.

#### Setup gcloud on your VM instances
3. SSH into the VM instance that you want to use gcloud on.

To do this find your VM instance on the Google Developer Console under Compute -> Compute Engine -> VM instances  at the bottom of the page. Once you have found your VM instance ensure that it is started (if it is not select the instance and click the 'Start' button at the top of the page). Finally click the 'SSH' button under the 'Connect' header at the bottom of the page.

4. Authenticate to gcloud.

Run the following command in your VM terminal:
```
gcloud auth login
```
and follow the on-screen instructions.

5. Configure the default project ID (if you did not do so in Step 4)

If you were not asked for your project ID in Step 4 then run the following command in you VM terminal to set your project ID.
```
gcloud config set project YOUR-PROJECT-ID
```
Recall that you can find your project ID in your [Google Developers Console](https://console.developers.google.com/project) under the 'Home' section.

> If you receive the following error during any of the later steps:
>  ######!ERROR: (gcloud.compute.instances.create) The required property [project] is not currently set.
>  ######!You may set it for your current workspace by running:
>
>  ######!$ gcloud config set project VALUE
>
>  ######!or it can be set temporarily by the environment variable [CLOUDSDK_CORE_PROJECT]
> your current project has not been set so you should execute the above command.

6. Configure the default zone

To avoid needing to select a time zone any time you run a gcloud command run the following command in your VM instance, replacing 'us-central1-f' with your desired time zone.
```
gcloud config set compute/zone us-central1-f
```
A list of time zones that are compatible with gcloud can be found [here](https://cloud.google.com/compute/docs/zones)

7. Enable the Compute Engine API

If you've never used GCE before, you may need to enable the Compute Engine API.  Click [here](https://console.developers.google.com/start/api?id=compute_component) to enable the API.

You can also enable the Compute Engine API manually by following these steps:
    1. go to your [Google Developers Console](https://console.developers.google.com/project)
    2. choose the project you are using for the Challenge
    3. Under 'APIs & auth' -> APIs, select 'Compute Engine API' and click the 'Enable' button at the top of the page

> If you receive the following error:
> ######!NAME PROJECT ALIAS DEPRECATED STATUS
> ######!ERROR: (gcloud.compute.images.create) Some requests did not succeed:
>
> ######!Access Not Configured. The API (Compute Engine API) is not enabled for your project.
> ######!Please use the Google Developers Console to update your configuration.
> You have not enabled the Compute Engine API

## How do I update the Planemo Image?
If there is a need to update the SDK image, usually because bug fixes or new features, you will need to create an new image and a new VM instance based on that image.

To create the new image and VM instance follow the same instructions you used to create your original image and VM instance (above or in [3.5.0 Quick Start](https://www.synapse.org/#!Synapse:syn2786217/wiki/266669). All the instructions are the same except you will need to choose a new name for your image, your disk and your instance (for example 'planemo-v2' instead of 'planemo').

When updating your image, you may want to get delete the older version to save space. There is no need to keep an image if there is an instance running based on that image, since the instance does not depend on the image once it has been created. If you delete the image before setting up your new image you can also use the same name for the new image and the old image.

Deleting the image isn't required if you are willing to pay for the extra storage space, and can manage the names of multiple images.

Once you have created your new VM instance you can then transfer all the data from your old instance to your new instance, by following the instructions below, so you do not lose any of your work.

After you have successfully transfered your data from your old VM instance to your new VM instance you can delete your old VM instance if you want, to save space.

>Make sure you transfer all the data from your old VM instance to either your local machine or your new VM instance before deleting your old VM instance or else you will lose all your work.

Alternatively, if you do not want to delete your old VM instance, you can stop it (but not delete it) by running the following command from your local machine:
```
gcloud compute instances stop planemo
```
You can also stop your instance manually by following these steps:
    1. go to your [Google Developers Console](https://console.developers.google.com/project)
    2. find your old VM under Compute -> Compute Engine -> VM instances at the bottom of the page
    3. select your old VM and click the 'Stop' button at the top of the page

##How do I delete my old image?

> Deleting an image is different then deleting an instance. The image is simply the start source, and once an instance as been started it is no longer dependent on the image. You work is stored in the instance. Do not delete that until you've copied it somewhere else.

To delete the old image run the following command from your local machine:
```
gcloud compute images delete OLD_IMAGE_NAME
```

If you do not have gcloud installed or prefer not to use the command line you can delete your old image manually by following these steps:
    1. go to your [Google Developers Console](https://console.developers.google.com/project)
    2. find your old image under Compute -> Compute Engine -> Images
    3. select your old image and click the 'Delete' button at the top of the page

##How do I transfer data between VM instances?
The easiest way to move data between two VMs is to use your personal machine as a transfer point. We will be transferring data from your old VM to your local machine and then from your local machine to your new VM.

_Note: For all instructions below replace `planemo` and `planemo-v2` with the names of your old and new VM instances respectively._
_Note: Before you start, ensure that you have set up gcloud on your local machine and both your VM's (old and new)._

* Start by running both instances at the same time. You can check if both instances are running and using gcloud by executing following the command on your local machine:
```
gcloud compute instances list
```
This should return the following list:
```
NAME       ZONE          MACHINE_TYPE  INTERNAL_IP   EXTERNAL_IP     STATUS
planemo-v2 us-central1-f n1-standard-2 10.240.229.40 162.222.179.9   RUNNING
planemo    us-central1-f n1-standard-2 10.240.49.28  130.211.131.162 RUNNING
```

* Next copy the files from the original machine to your local machine by executing the following command on your local machine:
```
gcloud compute copy-files ubuntu@planemo:/opt/galaxy/tools ./
```

> If you receive the following error:
>
> ######!ERROR: (gcloud.compute.copy-files) Could not SSH to the instance.
>
> when you are trying to copy your files then check to make sure that your VM instance has HTTPS and HTTP connections enabled. This information can be found in your Google Compute Engine by going to Compute -> Compute Engine -> VM instances, clicking on you VM instance and looking under Firewall (both boxes should be checked). If these boxes are not checked click 'Edit' at the top of the page to change them.

* Finally copy the files from your local machine to the new VM by executing the following command on you local machine:
```
gcloud compute copy-files tools ubuntu@planemo-v2:/opt/galaxy/
```

# Galaxy

## What should I do if my tool isn't loading properly in Galaxy?
First try restarting both Docker and Galaxy, in case the changes haven't been recognized by one of these services, using the commands:
```
$ sudo service docekr restart
$ restart_galaxy
```
in your VM instance.

If you are still having issues check that your XML file is formatted properly using the `planemo lint my_tool_xml.xml` command and then restart Docker and Galaxy again.

## Can I just submit result files to the Challenge?
No, you must submit a Galaxy workflow along with all your tool code. For more information look at [3.5.7 - Submitting to the Challenge]

# Docker
## Do I need to create my own Dockerfile?
No, if you find a Dockerfile that works for you on the [Docker Registry](https://hub.docker.com/) then feel free to use that one instead. In fact if you use a Dockerfile straight from the Docker Registry then you don't even need to donwload it to your VM, you just need to reference it in your XML file.

## The Dockerfiles I found on the Docker website include 'CMD' lines to run some software function, should mine?
No, that is what Galaxy is for. Your Dockerfile should only be used to setup the environment for your tool to run in, all of the commands should be found in your tool's XML file.
